v0.40.0 changelog - Labs (#6766)
PennyLaneAI/pennylane: doc/releases/changelog-0.40.0.md

* Added support to build a vibrational Hamiltonian in Taylor form.
  [(#6523)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6523)

<h3>Labs: a place for unified and rapid prototyping of research software 🧑‍🔬</h3>

The new `qml.labs` module will house experimental research software 🔬. Features here may be useful
for state-of-the-art research, beta testing, or getting a sneak peek into *potential* new features before
they are added to PennyLane.

The experimental nature of this module means features may not integrate well with other 
PennyLane staples like differentiability, JAX, or JIT compatibility. There may also be unexpected
sharp bits 🔪 and errors ❌.

.. warning:: 
    This module is **experimental**! Breaking changes and removals will happen without warning.
    Please use these features carefully and let us know your thoughts. Your feedback will inform
    how these features become a part of mainline PennyLane.

<h4>Resource estimation</h4>

* Resource estimation functionality in Labs is focused on being light-weight and flexible. 

> The Labs `resource_estimation` module involves modifications to core PennyLane that reduce the

Author: ```suggestion
The Labs :mod:`qml.labs.resource_estimation <pennylane.labs.resource_estimation>` module involves modifications to core PennyLane that reduce the
```

memory requirements and computational time of resource estimation. These include new or modified
base classes and one new function:

>   * `Resources` - This class is simplified in `labs`, removing the arguments: `gate_sizes`, `depth`,

Author: ```suggestion
  * :class:`~.labs.resource_estimation.Resources` - This class is simplified in `labs`, removing the arguments: `gate_sizes`, `depth`,
```

  and `shots`. [(#6428)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6428)

>   * `ResourceOperator` - Replaces `ResourceOperation`, expanded to include decompositions. [(#6428)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6428)

Author: ```suggestion
  * :class:`~.labs.resource_estimation.ResourceOperator` - Replaces :class:`~.labs.resource_estimation.ResourceOperation`, expanded to include decompositions. [(#6428)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6428)
```

>   * `CompressedResourceOp` - A new class with the minimum information to estimate resources:

Author: ```suggestion
  * :class:`~.labs.resource_estimation.CompressedResourceOp` - A new class with the minimum information to estimate resources:
```

  the operator type and the parameters needed to decompose it. [(#6428)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6428)

>   * `ResourceOperator` versions of many existing PennyLane operations, like Pauli operators,

Author: ```suggestion
  * :class:`~.labs.resource_estimation.ResourceOperator` versions of many existing PennyLane operations, like Pauli operators,
```

>   `ResourceHadamard`, and `ResourceCNOT`. [(#6447)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6447)

Author: ```suggestion
  :class:`~.labs.resource_estimation.ResourceHadamard`, and :class:`~.labs.resource_estimation.ResourceCNOT`. [(#6447)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6447)
```

  [(#6579)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6579)
  [(#6538)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6538)
  [(#6592)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6592).

>   * `get_resources()` - The new entry point to efficiently obtain the resources of quantum circuits.

Author: ```suggestion
  * :func:`~.labs.resource_estimation.get_resources()` - The new entry point to efficiently obtain the resources of quantum circuits.
```

  [(#6500)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6500)

>   Using new Resource versions of existing operations and `get_resources`, we can estimate

Author: ```suggestion
  Using new Resource versions of existing operations and :func:`~.labs.resource_estimation.get_resources`, we can estimate
```

  resources quickly:
  ```python
  import pennylane.labs.resource_estimation as re
  
  def my_circuit():
      for w in range(2):
          re.ResourceHadamard(w)
      re.ResourceCNOT([0, 1])
      re.ResourceRX(1.23, 0)
      re.ResourceRY(-4.56, 1)
      re.ResourceQFT(wires=[0, 1, 2])
      return qml.expval(re.ResourceHadamard(2))
  ```
  ```pycon
  >>> res = re.get_resources(my_circuit)()
  >>> print(res)
  wires: 3
  gates: 202
  gate_types:
  {'Hadamard': 5, 'CNOT': 10, 'T': 187}
  ```

  We can also set custom gate sets for decompositions:

  ````pycon
  >>> gate_set={"Hadamard","CNOT","RZ", "RX", "RY", "SWAP"}
  >>> res = re.get_resources(my_circuit, gate_set=gate_set)()
  >>> print(res)
  wires: 3
  gates: 24
  gate_types:
  {'Hadamard': 5, 'CNOT': 7, 'RX': 1, 'RY': 1, 'SWAP': 1, 'RZ': 9}
  ````

  Alternatively, it is possible to manually substitute associated resources:

  ```pycon
  >>> new_resources = re.substitute(res, "SWAP", re.Resources(2, 3, {"CNOT":3}))
  >>> print(new_resources)
  {'Hadamard': 5, 'CNOT': 10, 'RX': 1, 'RY': 1, 'RZ': 9}
  ```

<h4>Experimental functionality for handling dynamical Lie algebras (DLAs)</h4>

> * Use the `pennylane.labs.dla` module to perform the

Author: ```suggestion
* Use the :mod:`qml.labs.dla <pennylane.labs.dla>` module to perform the
```

  [KAK decomposition](https://pennylane.ai/qml/demos/tutorial_kak_decomposition):

>   * `cartan_decomp`: obtain a **Cartan decomposition** of an input **Lie algebra** via an **involution**.

Author: ```suggestion
  * :func:`~.labs.dla.cartan_decomp`: obtain a **Cartan decomposition** of an input **Lie algebra** via an **involution**.
```

  [(#6392)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6392)

>   * We provide a variety of **involutions** like `concurrence_involution`, `even_odd_involution` and canonical Cartan involutions.

Author: ```suggestion
  * We provide a variety of **involutions** like :func:`~.labs.dla.concurrence_involution`, :func:`~.labs.dla.even_odd_involution` and canonical Cartan involutions.
```

  [(#6392)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6392)
  [(#6396)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6396)

>   * `cartan_subalgebra`: compute a horizontal **Cartan subalgebra**.

Author: ```suggestion
  * :func:`~.labs.dla.cartan_subalgebra`: compute a horizontal **Cartan subalgebra**.
```

  [(#6403)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6403)

>   * ``variational_kak_adj``: compute a [variational KAK decomposition](https://pennylane.ai/qml/demos/tutorial_fixed_depth_hamiltonian_simulation_via_cartan_decomposition) of a Hermitian operator using a **Cartan decomposition** and the adjoint

Author: ```suggestion
  * :func:`~.labs.dla.variational_kak_adj` : compute a [variational KAK decomposition](https://pennylane.ai/qml/demos/tutorial_fixed_depth_hamiltonian_simulation_via_cartan_decomposition) of a Hermitian operator using a **Cartan decomposition** and the adjoint
```

  representation of a horizontal **Cartan subalgebra**.
  [(#6446)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6446)

  To use this functionality we start with a set of Hermitian operators.

  ```pycon
  >>> n = 3
  >>> gens = [qml.X(i) @ qml.X(i + 1) for i in range(n - 1)]
  >>> gens += [qml.Z(i) for i in range(n)]
  >>> H = qml.sum(*gens)
  ```

  We then generate its Lie algebra by computing the Lie closure.

  ```pycon
  >>> g = qml.lie_closure(gens)
  >>> g = [op.pauli_rep for op in g]
  >>> print(g)
  [1 * X(0) @ X(1), 1 * X(1) @ X(2), 1.0 * Z(0), ...]
  ```

>   We then choose an involution (e.g. `concurrence_involution`) that defines a Cartan decomposition `g = k + m`. `k` is the vertical subalgebra, and `m` its horizontal complement (not a subalgebra).

Author: ```suggestion
  We then choose an involution (e.g. :func:`~.labs.dla.concurrence_involution`) that defines a Cartan decomposition `g = k + m`. `k` is the vertical subalgebra, and `m` its horizontal complement (not a subalgebra).
```

  >>> involution = concurrence_involution
  >>> k, m = cartan_decomp(g, involution=involution)
  ```

  The next step is just re-ordering the basis elements in `g` and computing its `structure_constants`.

  ```pycon
  >>> g = k + m
  >>> adj = qml.structure_constants(g)
  ```

  We can then compute a (horizontal) Cartan subalgebra `a`, that is, a maximal Abelian subalgebra of `m`.
  ```pycon
  >>> from pennylane.labs.dla import cartan_subalgebra
  >>> g, k, mtilde, a, adj = cartan_subalgebra(g, k, m, adj)
  ```

  Having determined both subalgebras `k` and `a`, we can compute the KAK decomposition variationally like in [2104.00728](https://arxiv.org/abs/2104.00728), see our [demo on KAK decomposition in practice](https://pennylane.ai/qml/demos/tutorial_fixed_depth_hamiltonian_simulation_via_cartan_decomposition).

  ```pycon
  >>> from pennylane.labs.dla import variational_kak_adj
  >>> dims = (len(k), len(mtilde), len(a))
  >>> adjvec_a, theta_opt = variational_kak_adj(H, g, dims, adj, opt_kwargs={"n_epochs": 3000})
  ```

* We also provide some additional features that are useful for handling dynamical Lie algebras.

>   * `recursive_cartan_decomp`: perform consecutive recursive Cartan decompositions.

Author: ```suggestion
  * :func:`~.labs.dla.recursive_cartan_decomp`: perform consecutive recursive Cartan decompositions.
```

  [(#6396)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6396)

>   * `lie_closure_dense`: extension of `qml.lie_closure` using dense matrices.

Author: ```suggestion
  * :func:`~.labs.dla.lie_closure_dense`: extension of `qml.lie_closure` using dense matrices.
```

  [(#6371)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6371)
  [(#6695)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6695)

>   * `structure_constants_dense`: extension of `qml.structure_constants` using dense matrices.

Author: ```suggestion
  * :func:`~.labs.dla.structure_constants_dense`: extension of `qml.structure_constants` using dense matrices.
```

  [(#6396)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6396) [(#6376)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6376)

<h4>Vibrational Hamiltonians</h4>

* New functionality in labs helps with the construction of vibrational Hamiltonians.

>   * Generate potential energy surfaces (PES) with `vibrational_pes`.

Author: ```suggestion
  * Generate potential energy surfaces (PES) with `qml.labs.vibrational.vibrational_pes`.
```

  [(#6616)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6616)
  [(#6676)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6676)
  
  ```pycon
  >>> symbols  = ['H', 'F']
  >>> geometry = np.array([[0.0, 0.0, 0.0], [0.0, 0.0, 1.0]])
  >>> mol = qml.qchem.Molecule(symbols, geometry)
  >>> pes = vibrational_pes(mol)
  ```

>   * Use the `christiansen_hamiltonian` function and potential energy surfaces 

Author: ```suggestion
  * Use the `qml.labs.vibrational.christiansen_hamiltonian` function and potential energy surfaces 
```

  to generate Hamiltonians in the Christiansen form.

>   [(#6560)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6560)

Author: 🤔

🚨 Do not use these features for projects that require long-term support 🚨

This new module in PennyLane will house experimental research software 🔬 Features here may be useful
for state of the art research and to beta test or get a sneak peek into *potential* new features before
they are added to PennyLane.

The experimental nature of this module means features may not integrate well with other 
PennyLane staples like differentiability or jax-jit compatibility. There may also be unexpected
sharp bits 🔪 and errors.

<h4>Resource estimation</h4>

* Refactored resource estimation functionality in Labs is focused on light-weight and flexible
  resource estimation. The Labs `resource_estimation` module involves modifications that reduce the
  memory requirements and computational time of resource estimation. These include new or modified
  base classes [(#6428)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6428):
  * `Resources` - This class is simplified in `labs`, removing the arguments: `gate_sizes`, `depth`,
    and `shots`
  * `ResourceOperator` - Replaces `ResourceOperation`, expanded to include decompositions 

>   * `CompressedResourceOp` - A new class with the minimum information required to estimate resources:
>     the operator type and parameters

Reviewer: Just a suggestion, happy to keep it as is.

```suggestion
  * `CompressedResourceOp` - A new class with the minimum information required to estimate resources:
    the operator type and the parameters (required to decompose it further)
```

<h3>Labs: a place for unified and rapid prototyping of research software 🧪</h3>

🚨 Warning: this module is **experimental**, breaking changes and removals will happen without warning 🚨

> 🚨 Do not use these features for projects that require long-term support 🚨

Reviewer 2: Yes!

This new module in PennyLane will house experimental research software 🔬 Features here may be useful
for state of the art research and to beta test or get a sneak peek into *potential* new features before
they are added to PennyLane.

The experimental nature of this module means features may not integrate well with other 
PennyLane staples like differentiability or jax-jit compatibility. There may also be unexpected

> sharp bits 🔪 and errors.

Reviewer 2: :rocket:

<h4>Resource estimation</h4>

> * Refactored resource estimation functionality in Labs is focused on light-weight and flexible

Reviewer 2: Not needed!

  resource estimation. The Labs `resource_estimation` module involves modifications that reduce the
  memory requirements and computational time of resource estimation. These include new or modified

>   base classes [(#6428)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6428):

Reviewer 2: Yes! Moving.

  representation of a horizontal **Cartan subalgebra**.
  [(#6446)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6446),
  * `cartan_subalgebra` and `structure_constants_dense`: obtain the adjoint representation of a Lie algebra or **Cartan subalgebra**.
  [(#6403)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6403)
  [(#6396)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6396) [(#6376)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6376),
  * `cartan_decomp`  and `recursive_cartan_decomp`: obtain a **Cartan decomposition** of an input **Lie algebra** 
  via an **involution**.
  [(#6392)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6392)[(#6396)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6396), 
  * `lie_closure_dense`: obtain a dynamical **Lie algebra** [(#6371)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6371)
  [(#6695)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6695)
  * **involutions** like `concurrence_involution`, `even_odd_involution` and canonical Cartan involutions
  [(#6392)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6392)
  [(#6396)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6396) 

>   To use this functionality we start with a Hermitian:

Author: ```suggestion
  To use this functionality we start with a Hermitian operator,
```

  ```pycon
  n = 3
  gens = [qml.X(i) @ qml.X(i + 1) for i in range(n - 1)]
  gens += [qml.Z(i) for i in range(n)]
  H = qml.sum(*gens)
  ```

>   Then generate a Lie algebra:

Author: ```suggestion
  then generate a Lie algebra,
```

  ```pycon
  g = qml.lie_closure(gens)
  g = [op.pauli_rep for op in g]
  ```

>   Choose an involution:

Author: ```suggestion
  choose an involution,
```

  ```pycon
  involution = dla.concurrence_involution
  ```

>   Define a new Lie algebra based on Cartan decomposition via involution

Author: ```suggestion
  define a new Lie algebra based on Cartan decomposition via involution,
```

  ```pycon
  k, m = dla.cartan_decomp(g, involution=involution)
  g = k + m
  ```

>   Obtain the adjoint representation of the Lie algebra

Author: ```suggestion
  obtain the adjoint representation of the Lie algebra,
```

  ```pycon
  adj = qml.structure_constants(g)
  ```

>   Obtain adjoint vector representations that define a corresponding Cartan subalgebra

Author: ```suggestion
  obtain adjoint vector representations that define a corresponding Cartan subalgebra,
```

  ```pycon
  g, k, mtilde, a, adj = dla.cartan_subalgebra(g, k, m, adj, tol=1e-14, start_idx=0)
  ```

>   Use the subalgebra to obtain a KAK decomposition of the Hamiltonian

Author: ```suggestion
  and, finally, use the subalgebra to obtain a KAK decomposition of the Hamiltonian,
```

> <h3>Labs: a place for unified and rapid prototyping of research software 🧪</h3>

Author: ```suggestion
<h3>Labs: a place for unified and rapid prototyping of research software 🧑‍🔬 </h3>
```

  >>> print(res)
  wires: 3
  gates: 24
  gate_types:
  {'Hadamard': 5, 'CNOT': 7, 'RX': 1, 'RY': 1, 'SWAP': 1, 'RZ': 9}
  ```
  Alternatively, it is possible to manually substitute associated resources:
  ```pycon
  >>> new_resources = re.substitute(res, "SWAP", re.Resources(2, 3, {"CNOT":3}))
  >>> print(new_resources)
  {'Hadamard': 5, 'CNOT': 10, 'RX': 1, 'RY': 1, 'RZ': 9}
  ```

<h4>Experimental functionality for handling dynamical Lie algebras (DLAs)</h4>

* Use the `pennylane.labs.dla` module to perform the
  [KAK decomposition](https://pennylane.ai/qml/demos/tutorial_kak_decomposition):
  * `cartan_decomp`: obtain a **Cartan decomposition** of an input **Lie algebra** via an **involution**
  [(#6392)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6392)
  * We provide a variety of **involutions** like `concurrence_involution`, `even_odd_involution` and canonical Cartan involutions
  [(#6392)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6392)
  [(#6396)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6396)
  * `cartan_subalgebra`: compute a horizontal **Cartan subalgebra**
  [(#6403)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6403)

>   * `variational_kak_adj`: compute a [variational KAK decomposition](https://pennylane.ai/qml/demos/tutorial_fixed_depth_hamiltonian_simulation_via_cartan_decomposition) of a Hermitian operator using a **Cartan decomposition** and the adjoint

Reviewer 3: I dont understand why, but `variational_kak_adj` doesnt render as code and the link also doesnt work 🤔

Reviewer 3: despite the same format as the other items and link in the standard markdown notation 😕 
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/dddb7256-bf5e-48ae-980b-c8c3c2a227fb)

Author: Usually this can happen when there are backticks (`) next to colons (:), and sphinx thinks you're trying to specify a directive 😠

Reviewer 3: it's not a problem in all cases above though with that same pattern 🤔

Author: #sphonx

Reviewer 2: Felt very clever on this one, let's see if it works :crossed_fingers: 
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/660efbe4-0c78-41cf-b88e-c870f82c3d76)

  [(#6446)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6446)

* We also provide some additional functionality that are useful for handling dynamical Lie algebras.
  * `recursive_cartan_decomp`: perform consecutive recursive Cartan decompositions.
  [(#6396)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6396)
  * `lie_closure_dense`: extension of `qml.lie_closure` using dense matrices [(#6371)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6371)
  [(#6695)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6695)
  * `structure_constants_dense`: extension of `qml.structure_constants` using dense matrices
  [(#6396)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6396) [(#6376)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6376),

  To use this functionality we start with a set of Hermitian operators.

  ```pycon
  >>> n = 3
  >>> gens = [qml.X(i) @ qml.X(i + 1) for i in range(n - 1)]
  >>> gens += [qml.Z(i) for i in range(n)]
  >>> H = qml.sum(*gens)
  ```
  We then generate its Lie algebra by computing the Lie closure.
  ```pycon
  >>> g = qml.lie_closure(gens)
  >>> g = [op.pauli_rep for op in g]
  >>> print(g)
  [1 * X(0) @ X(1), 1 * X(1) @ X(2), 1.0 * Z(0), ...]
  ```

>   We then choose an involution (e.g. $\Theta(x) = -x^T$, the `concurrence_involution`) that defines a Cartan decomposition $\mathfrak{g} = \mathfrak{k} \oplus \mathfrak{m}$. $\mathfrak{k}$ is the vertical subalgebra, and $\mathfrak{m}$ its horizontal complement (not a subalgebra).

Reviewer 3: not sure math mode works in this markdown? (not used anywhere else)

Reviewer 3: doesnt look like it 😅 will revert

* Added `opengraph.png` asset and configured `opengraph` metadata image. Overrode the documentation landing page `meta-description`.
  [(#6696)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6696)

> <h3>Labs: a place for unified and rapid prototyping of research software 🧑‍🔬</h3>

Reviewer 2: Done.

.. warning:: 
    This module is **experimental**! Breaking changes and removals will happen without warning. Do not use these features for projects that require long-term support.

> This new module in PennyLane—accessed under the `qml.labs` namespace—will house experimental research software 🔬. Features here may be useful

Reviewer 4: The emdash looks a bit odd here 🤔

for state-of-the art research, beta testing, or getting a sneak peek into *potential* new features before
they are added to PennyLane.

The experimental nature of this module means features may not integrate well with other 

> PennyLane staples like differentiability or jax-jit compatibility. There may also be unexpected

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
PennyLane staples like differentiability, JAX, or JIT compatibility. There may also be unexpected
```

<h3>Labs: a place for unified and rapid prototyping of research software 🧪</h3>

.. warning:: 

>     This module is **experimental**! Breaking changes and removals will happen without warning. Do not use these features for projects that require long-term support.

Reviewer 5: I don't quite like the last bit, we can discuss it more.
```suggestion
    This module is **experimental**! Breaking changes and removals will happen without warning.
```

Author: It's a good point! We don't want this message to be a deterrent...

Reviewer 2: We really want to emphasize that user's shouldn't rely on these features. Any suggestions for something we could say instead of "Do no use these features for projects that require long-term support"?

Reviewer 4: Just to copy over Slack discussion for those reading here on GitHub: I am in favour of re-wording it along the lines of 'use these features, and let us know/provide feedback, this will inform them becoming part of PL etc.'

We want to encourage researchers to use these features while communicating that they are unstable/may break. That we we can gather feedback to inform these features.

Reviewer 4: A second though: should this warning be the first thing in the changelog entry? I think we should instead move the description of what qml.labs is to the top, and have this warning further down.

Reviewer 2: Updated the warning to:

> This module is **experimental**! Breaking changes and removals will happen without warning.
>     Please use these features carefully and let us know your thoughts. Your feedback will inform
>     how these features become a part of mainline PennyLane.

This new module in PennyLane—accessed under the `qml.labs` namespace—will house experimental research software 🔬. Features here may be useful
for state-of-the art research, beta testing, or getting a sneak peek into *potential* new features before
they are added to PennyLane.

The experimental nature of this module means features may not integrate well with other 
PennyLane staples like differentiability or jax-jit compatibility. There may also be unexpected
sharp bits 🔪 and errors ❌.

<h4>Resource estimation</h4>

* Resource estimation functionality in Labs is focused on being light-weight and flexible. 
  The Labs `resource_estimation` module involves modifications to core PennyLane that reduce the
  memory requirements and computational time of resource estimation. These include new or modified
  base classes and one new function:

>   * `Resources` - This class is simplified in `labs`, removing the arguments: `gate_sizes`, `depth`,
>     and `shots` [(#6428)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6428)
>   * `ResourceOperator` - Replaces `ResourceOperation`, expanded to include decompositions [(#6428)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6428)
>   * `CompressedResourceOp` - A new class with the minimum information to estimate resources:
>   the operator type and the parameters needed to decompose it [(#6428)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6428)
>   * `ResourceOperator` versions of many existing PennyLane operations, like Pauli operators,
>   `ResourceHadamard`, and `ResourceCNOT` [(#6447)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6447)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  * `Resources` - This class is simplified in `labs`, removing the arguments: `gate_sizes`, `depth`,
    and `shots`. [(#6428)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6428)
  * `ResourceOperator` - Replaces `ResourceOperation`, expanded to include decompositions. [(#6428)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6428)
  * `CompressedResourceOp` - A new class with the minimum information to estimate resources:
  the operator type and the parameters needed to decompose it. [(#6428)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6428)
  * `ResourceOperator` versions of many existing PennyLane operations, like Pauli operators,
  `ResourceHadamard`, and `ResourceCNOT`. [(#6447)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6447)
```

  [(#6579)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6579)
  [(#6538)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6538)
  [(#6592)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6592).

>   * `get_resources()` - A new entry point to obtain the resources from quantum circuits.
>   [(#6500)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6500)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  * `get_resources()` - The new entry point to efficiently obtain the resources of quantum circuits.
  [(#6500)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6500)
```

  Using new Resource versions of existing operations and `get_resources`, we can estimate
  resources quickly:

  ```python
  import pennylane.labs.resource_estimation as re
  
  def my_circuit():
      for w in range(2):
          re.ResourceHadamard(w)
      re.ResourceCNOT([0, 1])
      re.ResourceRX(1.23, 0)
      re.ResourceRY(-4.56, 1)
      re.ResourceQFT(wires=[0, 1, 2])
      return qml.expval(re.ResourceHadamard(2))
  ```
  ```pycon
  >>> res = re.get_resources(my_circuit)()
  >>> print(res)
  wires: 3
  gates: 202
  gate_types:
  {'Hadamard': 5, 'CNOT': 10, 'T': 187}
  ```
  We can also set custom gate sets for decompositions:
  ```pycon
  >>> gate_set={"Hadamard","CNOT","RZ", "RX", "RY", "SWAP"}
  >>> res = re.get_resources(my_circuit, gate_set=gate_set)()
  >>> print(res)
  wires: 3
  gates: 24
  gate_types:
  {'Hadamard': 5, 'CNOT': 7, 'RX': 1, 'RY': 1, 'SWAP': 1, 'RZ': 9}
  ```

>   Alternatively, it is possible to manually substitute associated resources:

Reviewer 5: Sphinx is including this line (and the next similar one) inside the code block, for whatever reason 😕

Reviewer 2: Should be resolved now :thinking:

Author: #sphonx

  ```pycon
  >>> new_resources = re.substitute(res, "SWAP", re.Resources(2, 3, {"CNOT":3}))
  >>> print(new_resources)
  {'Hadamard': 5, 'CNOT': 10, 'RX': 1, 'RY': 1, 'RZ': 9}
  ```

<h4>Experimental functionality for handling dynamical Lie algebras (DLAs)</h4>

* Use the `pennylane.labs.dla` module to perform the
  [KAK decomposition](https://pennylane.ai/qml/demos/tutorial_kak_decomposition):

>   * `cartan_decomp`: obtain a **Cartan decomposition** of an input **Lie algebra** via an **involution**
>   [(#6392)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6392)
>   * We provide a variety of **involutions** like `concurrence_involution`, `even_odd_involution` and canonical Cartan involutions
>   [(#6392)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6392)
>   [(#6396)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6396)
>   * `cartan_subalgebra`: compute a horizontal **Cartan subalgebra**
>   [(#6403)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6403)
>   * ``variational_kak_adj``: compute a [variational KAK decomposition](https://pennylane.ai/qml/demos/tutorial_fixed_depth_hamiltonian_simulation_via_cartan_decomposition) of a Hermitian operator using a **Cartan decomposition** and the adjoint
>   representation of a horizontal **Cartan subalgebra**
>   [(#6446)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6446)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  * `cartan_decomp`: obtain a **Cartan decomposition** of an input **Lie algebra** via an **involution**.
  [(#6392)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6392)
  * We provide a variety of **involutions** like `concurrence_involution`, `even_odd_involution` and canonical Cartan involutions.
  [(#6392)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6392)
  [(#6396)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6396)
  * `cartan_subalgebra`: compute a horizontal **Cartan subalgebra**.
  [(#6403)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6403)
  * ``variational_kak_adj``: compute a [variational KAK decomposition](https://pennylane.ai/qml/demos/tutorial_fixed_depth_hamiltonian_simulation_via_cartan_decomposition) of a Hermitian operator using a **Cartan decomposition** and the adjoint
  representation of a horizontal **Cartan subalgebra**.
  [(#6446)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6446)
```

  >>> involution = concurrence_involution
  >>> k, m = cartan_decomp(g, involution=involution)
  ```

  The next step is just re-ordering the basis elements in `g` and computing its `structure_constants`.

  ```pycon
  >>> g = k + m
  >>> adj = qml.structure_constants(g)
  ```

  We can then compute a (horizontal) Cartan subalgebra `a`, that is, a maximal Abelian subalgebra of `m`.
  ```pycon
  >>> from pennylane.labs.dla import cartan_subalgebra
  >>> g, k, mtilde, a, adj = cartan_subalgebra(g, k, m, adj)
  ```

  Having determined both subalgebras `k` and `a`, we can compute the KAK decomposition variationally like in [2104.00728](https://arxiv.org/abs/2104.00728), see our [demo on KAK decomposition in practice](https://pennylane.ai/qml/demos/tutorial_fixed_depth_hamiltonian_simulation_via_cartan_decomposition).

  ```pycon
  >>> from pennylane.labs.dla import variational_kak_adj
  >>> dims = (len(k), len(mtilde), len(a))
  >>> adjvec_a, theta_opt = variational_kak_adj(H, g, dims, adj, opt_kwargs={"n_epochs": 3000})
  ```

* We also provide some additional functionality that are useful for handling dynamical Lie algebras.

>   * `recursive_cartan_decomp`: perform consecutive recursive Cartan decompositions
>   [(#6396)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6396)
>   * `lie_closure_dense`: extension of `qml.lie_closure` using dense matrices
>   [(#6371)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6371)
>   [(#6695)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6695)
>   * `structure_constants_dense`: extension of `qml.structure_constants` using dense matrices
>   [(#6396)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6396) [(#6376)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6376)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  * `recursive_cartan_decomp`: perform consecutive recursive Cartan decompositions.
  [(#6396)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6396)
  * `lie_closure_dense`: extension of `qml.lie_closure` using dense matrices.
  [(#6371)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6371)
  [(#6695)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6695)
  * `structure_constants_dense`: extension of `qml.structure_constants` using dense matrices.
  [(#6396)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6396) [(#6376)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6376)
```
